Z-Kart

~~~~~

Task : 1 - Customer Initialization

We are going to write a software to perform an online shopping application called Z-Kart.

The back bone for every online retail application is its customers. The initial customer details for our system will be given in a file zusers_db.txt

The file contains multiple lines and every line will be of the form



UserName/Email EncryptedPwd Name Mobile

abc@zoho.com ApipNbjm Rahul 9922992299

123@zoho.com Cboljoh Anitha 8564119904

user@zoho.com kbwb22 Arpan 9872345693

............

............

At first, the Z-Kart application will read the contents of this file and initialize its customer base



Task : 2 - Inventory Initialization

Z-Kart is an online shopping kart focussing on selling electronic gadgets especially laptops, mobiles and tablets

The inventory of Z-Kart is initialized from the file z-kart_db.txt which is of below format



Category Brand Model Price Stock

Mobile Apple 6S 60000 10

Mobile Motorola G 12000 5

Laptop HP Elite 56000 20

Tablet Google ChromeBook 8000 12

....

....



Read the file and initialize the Z-Kart inventory database



Task : 3 - New Account SignupsThere must be provision to sign up new accounts. While adding new customers, get their e-mail id, name, mobile number and password as input. Ask the user to re-type password to avoid any typos. Ensure that the password and re-typed password match.

Since every customer needs to be identified uniquely, ensure that the given e-mail id is not existing in our registered Z-Kart database. If so, prompt the user to sign in instead of sign up

Append the newly added customer details into the zusers_db.txt



Task : 4 - Encryption

It's generally not advised to store passwords directly in files. So the passwords present in the file are obtained by applying a simple encryption technique to each and every individual character in the plain password.



The encryption rule is very simple - add +1 to original char to encrypt it

a will be encrypted as b

m as n, z as a ( wrap around ) ...

1 as 2, 9 as 0, 0 as 1....

A as B, C as D, Z as A.....



Please take care of encrypting the password while writing to external storage



Task : 5 - Login

Already signed up customers can login into Z-Kart for shopping. In the login screen, get the username and password. Check whether the username entered is a valid registered user. If not, prompt the user to sign up instead of sign in!

As the users are not aware of and are abstracted from the encryptions applied to passwords, they will input the simple plain password which they provided. Encrypt it and verify with the stored encrypted password for authentication



Task : 6 - Shopping

The system will guide the user to ease his shopping effort. The user will choose what he looks for - ( Mobile / Laptop / Tablet ). The system will display the models, brand and price based on user's preference.

The user will choose the brand and model. The system will ask for the user to continue shopping where he can add any number of additional products. Once he decides to check out the cart, the system will check the availability of stock for all the items in cart and present the user with an invoice.

The system will generate a unique invoice number and present the order details to the user



Task : 7 - Admin mode

Z-Kart supports a special login for the admin with the username admin@zoho.com and password "xyzzy"

When the password entered is correct, the user will be taken to the admin section. When the admin enters, first the app will display a list of items whose stock is less than or equal to a configured threshold (say 10) to help him in placing the re-order

Once the admin places the re-order, the stock details should get updated



Task : 8 - Attractive & Unique Deals for every customer

Z-Kart wants to make their customers buy more and more. Every customer after making their initial 3 purchases or after buying goods worth more than 20000, will be presented with a unique discount code. The discount code is a randomly generated alphanumeric string of length 6

Persist the unique discount code against the other customer details in zusers_db.txt



The customer can use this code for his next 3 transactions. Then the code automatically expires.

When the user enters the code, check the validity of the code (correctness and number of uses)

and if it's valid, Z-Kart will give a x% discount to the customer. (the value of x is a random number generated between 20-30)

Display the amount saved while displaying the invoice





Task : 9 - Deal of the Moment

Z-Kart will analyze the stock in hand for all its items. The item which has the highest stock will be given a special discount of 10%.

The Deal of the Moment will be automatically applied to that particular item irrespective of applying any discount code and the deal item changes after every purchase as stock will be recalculated





Task : 10 - Persistence of Order History

The order history will be persisted for every user. Any user after successful login, is allowed to check his order history. The sample format of history is displayed below



Invoice Number 312684

Date 19-Jul-2016



Category Brand Model Price

Mobile Apple 6S 60000



Total - 60000



Invoice Number 132793

Date 1-Jun-2016



Category Brand Model Price

Tablet Google ChromeBook 8000

Total - 8000



Task : 11 - Force Password Change

Force the admin to change his password from the default "xyzzy" to a new one when he logs in for the first time. From then on-wards, authentication should happen with his new password



Task : 12 - Password Complexity & History

Password complexity of mandating at least 2 lower case, 2 upper case and 2 numbers with a minimum length of 6

The application should support change password. After authenticating with current password, ask the user/admin to type and re-type the new password. Ensure the new password adheres to the password complexity criteria specified

Encrypt and then update the new password in user database and hereafter, all authentications should work only with new password for this user

The application will remember past 3 passwords for any user/admin while changing password, the new password should not be same as the last 3 passwords



Ensure that Z-Kart application continues to run until the user asks to quit
